docs/source/user/tutorial.rst, before:

.. _tutorial:

First OEF Agents
================

In this guide, we show you some examples of how to develop and run OEF agents.


Initialization
--------------


Setup an OEF Node
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To be able to follow the following examples, we need to set up an OEF Node.
This node will manage the discovery of agents
and the communications between agents.

Using Docker
````````````

We recommend you use the Docker image provided by
the `OEFCore <https://github.com/uvue-git/OEFCore.git>`_,
by following these steps:

* Clone OEFCore

.. code-block:: bash

  git clone git@github.com:uvue-git/OEFCore.git --recursive && cd OEFCore/

* Build the image

.. code-block:: bash

  ./oef-core-image/scripts/docker-build-img.sh

* Run the image. This will start the OEF node, listening to port ``3333`` at ``localhost``:

.. code-block:: bash

  ./oef-core-image/scripts/docker-run.sh -p 3333:3333 --

Your terminal will be busy while the Docker image is running.
If you would prefer to run the OEF node in the background, add the ``-d`` flag:

.. code-block:: bash

  ./oef-core-image/scripts/docker-run.sh -p 3333:3333 -d --

After you have completed this tutorial,
you can exit the Docker container by running the following line:

.. code-block:: bash

  docker stop $(docker ps | grep oef-core-image | awk '{ print $1 }')

Compiling from source
`````````````````````

You will need:

* ``cmake``
* ``gcc``
* Google Protocol Buffers library.

On Linux (Ubuntu) you can run:

::

  git clone https://github.com/uvue-git/OEFCore.git --recursive && cd OEFCore
  sudo apt-get install cmake protobuf-compiler libprotobuf-dev
  mkdir build && cd build
  cmake ..
  make -j 4

And to run a OEFNode:

::

  ./apps/node/Node


For full details, please follow the
`installation instructions for the OEFCore <https://github.com/uvue-git/OEFCore/blob/master/INSTALL.txt>`_.


Optional: set up the logger
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It might be useful to see logging messages to better understand what happens behind the scenes.

To do so, run the following instructions at the beginning of your scripts:

.. code-block:: python

    import logging
    from oef.logger import set_logger
    set_logger("oef.agents", logging.DEBUG)


First example: Echo agent
---------------------------

In this section we will develop an `echo agent`. That is, whenever it receives a message from another agent, it replies
with the same message.

First, we define the service agent that implements the echo service.
Then, we implement other client agents to interact with the echo service.

The code for the examples can be found
`here <https://github.com/uvue-git/OEFCorePython/tree/master/examples/echo>`_.

Echo Agent service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's start to implement the echo service agent.
To do so, we define a new class, ``EchoServiceAgent``, which extends
the ``OEFAgent`` class and redefines the behaviour of the ``on_message`` method.

The ``on_message`` method of an agent is called whenever
the agent is one of the intended recipients of the message.
In this case, we just send the message back
to the sender through the OEF.

In later examples we will see a more complex protocol and
how to implement the associated callbacks.

.. code-block:: python

    from oef.agents import OEFAgent

    class EchoServiceAgent(OEFAgent):

        def on_message(self, origin: str, dialogue_id: int, content: bytes):
            """ this method is called whenever a new message is sent to this agent.
            We send the received message back to the origin"""
            print("Received message: origin={}, dialogue_id={}, content={}".format(origin, dialogue_id, content))
            print("Sending {} back to {}".format(content, origin))
            self.send_message(dialogue_id, origin, content)

Connect to the OEF
``````````````````

In order to connect a (service) agent to the OEF, we need to specify:

* A unique identifier for the agent;
* The IP address and port of the OEF Node on which we want to register;

We will use ``echo_server`` as the identifier.
Choose the IP address and port pair provided by the OEFNode instance.
In this example, the IP address and port pair will be
``127.0.0.1`` and ``3333``, respectively.

.. code-block:: python

    # create agent and connect it to OEF
    server_agent = EchoServiceAgent("echo_server", oef_addr="127.0.0.1", oef_port=3333)
    server_agent.connect()

Define a Data Model and a Description
``````````````````````````````````````

In order to make our agent discoverable to other agents, we need to define a `description` (instance of a schema),
which refers to a `data model` (abstract definition of the schema).
In this way, other agents can find our service by making `queries` (defined over the same data model) to the OEF.

.. code-block:: python

    from oef.schema import DataModel, Description
    echo_model = DataModel("echo", [], "echo data service.")
    echo_description = Description({}, echo_model)


Our data model ``echo_model`` is very straightforward.
It has an empty list of `attribute schema`, just to make the example simpler.

The ``echo_description`` is the instantiation of our abstract
data model ``echo`` and defined accordingly.

Register the service
````````````````````

Now that we have a description of our service, let's register our service agent to the OEF:

.. code-block:: python

    server_agent.register_service(echo_description)


This instruction will notify the OEF Node that there is a new service available.

When another agent makes a query on the ``echo_model``, if the ``echo_description``
satisfies the constraint of that query,
then our agent will be one of the results of that query.


Run the agent
`````````````
To run the agent waiting for events:

::

  server_agent.run()


The ``run()`` method is blocking, so you have to switch to another terminal/console to launch the client.

For some particular use cases,
you may want to use ``async_run()``, which is the associated ``async`` method.


Echo Agent client
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `EchoClientAgent` implements our `echo client`, which is
the consumer of the service we implemented in the previous section.

.. code-block:: python

      from typing import List

      from oef.agents import OEFAgent

      class EchoClientAgent(OEFAgent):

          def on_message(self, origin: str, dialogue_id: int, content: bytes):
              print("Received message: origin={}, dialogue_id={}, content={}".format(origin, dialogue_id, content))

          def on_search_result(self, search_id: int, agents: List[str]):
              if len(agents) > 0:
                  print("Agents found: ", agents)
                  msg = b"hello"
                  for agent in agents:
                      print("Sending {} to {}".format(msg, agent))
                      self.send_message(0, agent, msg)
              else:
                  print("No agent found.")


The ``on_message`` method has the same semantics as the one implemented
in the ``EchoServiceAgent`` class. In this case,
we don't implement any complex behavior (we just print the received message).

The ``on_search_result`` callback is called whenever the agent receives
a search result of a search query with
``search_agents()`` or ``search_services()`` methods.

In our case, the agent just sends a ``"hello"`` message (in bytes) to every discovered service,
by using the ``send_message()`` method.

Connect to the OEF
``````````````````

Analogously to the previous section, we connect our client to the OEF.

.. code-block:: python

    client_agent = EchoClientAgent("echo_client", oef_addr="127.0.0.1", oef_port=3333)
    client_agent.connect()


Make a query
````````````

Now we need to search for agents who provide the ``echo`` service.

To do so, we create a ``Query`` referring to the ``echo`` data model. The first parameter is a list
of *constraints* over the attributes of the data model. However, since our data model is trivial,
our query just returns all the agents that are registered with the `echo` data model.

.. code-block:: python

    # create a query for the echo data model
    from oef.schema import DataModel
    from oef.query import Query
    echo_model = DataModel("echo", [], "Echo data service.")
    echo_query = Query([], echo_model)


Search for services
```````````````````

Once we have a query,
we can ask the OEF to return
all service agents that satisfy the given constraints.

.. code-block:: python

    client_agent.search_services(echo_query)

Wait for search results
```````````````````````

The client agent needs to wait for search results from the OEF Node:

.. code-block:: python

    # wait for events
    client_agent.run()


Once the OEF Node computes the results, the ``on_search_result`` callback is called.


Message Exchange
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


If you run the agents in different consoles, you can check the log messages that they produced.

The output from the client agent should be:

::

    Make search to the OEF
    Agents found:  ['echo_server']
    Sending b'hello' to echo_server
    Received message: origin=echo_server, dialogue_id=0, content=b'hello'

Whereas, the one from the server agent is:

::

    Received message: origin=echo_client, dialogue_id=0, content=b'hello'
    Sending b'hello' back to echo_client


The order of the exchanged message is the following:

1. The service agent ``echo_server`` registers itself to the the OEF Node and waits for messages.
2. The ``echo_client`` queries to the OEF Node
3. The OEF Node sends back the list of agents who satisfy
   the query constraints. In this trivial example,
   the only agent returned is the ``echo_server``.
4. The client sends a ``"hello"`` message to the OEF Node,
   which targets the ``echo_server``
5. The OEF Node dispatches the message from ``echo_client`` to ``echo_server``
6. The ``echo_server`` receives the message and sends a new message (with the same content)
   to the OEF Node, which targets the ``echo_client``
7. The OEF Node dispatch the message from ``echo_server`` to ``echo_client``
8. The ``echo_client`` receives the echo message.

Follows the sequence diagram with the message exchange.

.. mermaid::

    sequenceDiagram
        participant Echo Client
        participant OEF Node
        participant Echo Service
        Echo Service->>OEF Node: (1) register_service(description);
        loop run()
            Echo Service->>Echo Service: waiting for messages...
        end
        Echo Client->>OEF Node: (2) search_services(query);
        loop run()
            Echo Client->>Echo Client: waiting for messages...
        end
        OEF Node->>Echo Client: (3) search_result(list of agents);
        Echo Client->>Echo Client: on_search_result();
        Echo Client->> OEF Node: (4) send_message("hello", "echo_server");
        OEF Node->> Echo Service: (5) "hello" from "echo_client";
        Echo Service->>Echo Service: (6) on_message();
        Echo Service ->> OEF Node: (7) send_message("hello", "echo_client")
        OEF Node ->> Echo Client: (8) "hello" from "echo_server"
        Echo Client->>Echo Client: on_message();


Second example: Weather Station
-------------------------------

In this second example, consider the following scenario:

* A `weather station` provides measurements of
  some physical quantity (e.g. wind speed, temperature, air pressure)
* A `weather client` is interested in these measurements.

The owner of the weather station wants to sell the data it measure.
In the following sections, we describe a
protocol that allows the agents to:

* request resources (physical assets, services, information etc.)
* make price proposals on the negotiated resources
* accept/decline proposals.


You can check the code `here <https://github.com/uvue-git/OEFCorePython/tree/master/examples/weather>`_.


Weather Station Agent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Define a DataModel
``````````````````

For this example we need a specific data model that can effectively describe the features of services.


Let's start with an attribute to represent whether a weather station provides a measure for physical quantities, e.g.
wind speed:

.. code-block:: python

    from oef.schema import AttributeSchema

    WIND_SPEED_ATTR = AttributeSchema(
        "wind_speed",
        bool,
        is_attribute_required=True,
        attribute_description="Provides wind speed measurements."
    )


The ``AttributeSchema`` class constructor requires:

- The name of the attribute;
- The type of the attribute: it can be one of ``int``, ``float``, ``bool`` and ``str``;
- A flag to determine whether the instances of the data model (that is ``Description``) need to specify a value;
- A description of the meaning of the attribute.

In this case, our ``wind_speed`` attribute is of type ``bool``. If the description of a weather station has the value
``wind_speed`` set to ``True``, then it means that it can provide measurements for the wind speed.

We can define other type of measurements as well:

.. code-block:: python

    TEMPERATURE_ATTR = AttributeSchema(
        "temperature",
        bool,
        is_attribute_required=True,
        attribute_description="Provides temperature measurements."
    )

    AIR_PRESSURE_ATTR = AttributeSchema(
        "air_pressure",
        bool,
        is_attribute_required=True,
        attribute_description="Provides air pressure measurements."
    )

    HUMIDITY_ATTR = AttributeSchema(
        "humidity",
        bool,
        is_attribute_required=True,
        attribute_description="Provides humidity measurements."
    )

    PRICE_ATTR = AttributeSchema(
        "price",
        int,
        is_attribute_required=True,
        attribute_description="The price for a measurement."
    )


We will use the ``price`` attribute, an integer, to represents the price for any measurements.

Now we can define our data model:

.. code-block:: python

    from oef.schema import DataModel

    WEATHER_DATA_MODEL = DataModel(
        "weather_data",
        [WIND_SPEED_ATTR,
        TEMPERATURE_ATTR,
        AIR_PRESSURE_ATTR,
        HUMIDITY_ATTR,
        PRICE_ATTR],
        "All possible weather data."
    )


To define our data model ``WEATHER_DATA_MODEL`` we need a name and a list of attributes. We use the
same we defined previously, that is ``WIND_SPEED_ATTR``, ``AIR_PRESSURE_ATTR``, ``HUMIDITY_ATTR`` and ``PRICE_ATTR``.


Define a Description
````````````````````

Once we have the data model, we can provide an `instance` of that model. To do so, we can use the ``Description`` class:

.. code-block:: python

    weather_service_description = Description(
        {
            "wind_speed": True,
            "temperature": True,
            "air_pressure": True,
            "humidity": True,
            "price": 50
        },
        WEATHER_DATA_MODEL
    )

The first argument is a dictionary where:

- the keys are the names of the attributes;
- the values are the instantiation of the attribute schema specification.

The second argument is the data model the description is referring to.

We will use this description to register our service to the OEF. In this way, other agents can make queries defined over
the data model ``WEATHER_DATA_MODEL`` and discover the service.

Define the WeatherStation agent
```````````````````````````````

This is the code for our weather station:

.. code-block:: python

    class WeatherStation(OEFAgent):


    def on_cfp(self,
               origin: str,
               dialogue_id: int,
               msg_id: int,
               target: int,
               query: CFP_TYPES):
        print("Received cfp from {0} cif {1} msgId {2} target {3} query [{4}]"
              .format(origin, dialogue_id, msg_id, target, query))

        # prepare a propose
        proposal = self.weather_service_description
        self.send_propose(dialogue_id, origin, [proposal], msg_id + 1, target + 1)


And here is the code to run the agent:

.. code-block:: python


    agent = WeatherStation("weather_station", oef_addr="127.0.0.1", oef_port=3333)
    agent.connect()
    agent.register_service(agent.service_description)
    agent.run()


Weather Client Agent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the code for the client of the weather service:

.. code-block:: python

    class WeatherClient(OEFAgent):
    
        def on_search_result(self, search_id: int, agents: List[str]):
            print("Agent found: {0}".format(agents))
            for agent in agents:
                print("Sending to agent {0}".format(agent))
                query = Query([Constraint(TEMPERATURE_ATTR, Eq(True)),
                               Constraint(AIR_PRESSURE_ATTR, Eq(True)),
                               Constraint(HUMIDITY_ATTR, Eq(True))],
                              WEATHER_DATA_MODEL)
                self.send_cfp(0, agent, query)
    
        def on_propose(self, origin: str, dialogue_id: int, msg_id: int, target: int, proposals: PROPOSE_TYPES):
            print("Received propose from {0} cif {1} msgId {2} target {3} proposals {4}"
                  .format(origin, dialogue_id, msg_id, target, proposals))
            print("Price {0}".format(proposals[0]._values["price"]))
            self.send_accept(dialogue_id, origin, msg_id + 1, msg_id)



And here's the code to run it:

.. code-block:: python

    agent = WeatherClient("weather_client", oef_addr="127.0.0.1", oef_port=3333)
    agent.connect()

    query = Query([Constraint(TEMPERATURE_ATTR, Eq(True)),
                   Constraint(AIR_PRESSURE_ATTR, Eq(True)),
                   Constraint(HUMIDITY_ATTR, Eq(True))],
                   WEATHER_DATA_MODEL)

    agent.search_services(query)
    agent.run()


Message Exchange
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


The output from the client agent should be:

::

    Agent found: ['weather_station']
    Sending to agent weather_station
    Received propose from weather_station cif 0 msgId 2 target 1 proposals [<oef.schema.Description object at 0x7f94ad8ca278>]
    Price 50


Whereas, the one from the server agent is:

::

    Received cfp from weather_client cif 0 msgId 1 target 0 query [<oef.query.Query object at 0x7fe00f674358>]
    Received accept from weather_client cif 0 msgId 3 target 2


The order of the exchanged message is the following:

TODO

Commit message:

Add sequence diagram for Echo example.

docs/source/user/tutorial.rst, after:

.. _tutorial:

First OEF Agents
================

In this guide, we show you some examples of how to develop and run OEF agents.


Initialization
--------------


Setup an OEF Node
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To be able to follow the following examples, we need to set up an OEF Node.
This node will manage the discovery of agents
and the communications between agents.

Using Docker
````````````

We recommend you use the Docker image provided by
the `OEFCore <https://github.com/uvue-git/OEFCore.git>`_,
by following these steps:

* Clone OEFCore

.. code-block:: bash

  git clone git@github.com:uvue-git/OEFCore.git --recursive && cd OEFCore/

* Build the image

.. code-block:: bash

  ./oef-core-image/scripts/docker-build-img.sh

* Run the image. This will start the OEF node, listening to port ``3333`` at ``localhost``:

.. code-block:: bash

  ./oef-core-image/scripts/docker-run.sh -p 3333:3333 --

Your terminal will be busy while the Docker image is running.
If you would prefer to run the OEF node in the background, add the ``-d`` flag:

.. code-block:: bash

  ./oef-core-image/scripts/docker-run.sh -p 3333:3333 -d --

After you have completed this tutorial,
you can exit the Docker container by running the following line:

.. code-block:: bash

  docker stop $(docker ps | grep oef-core-image | awk '{ print $1 }')

Compiling from source
`````````````````````

You will need:

* ``cmake``
* ``gcc``
* Google Protocol Buffers library.

On Linux (Ubuntu) you can run:

::

  git clone https://github.com/uvue-git/OEFCore.git --recursive && cd OEFCore
  sudo apt-get install cmake protobuf-compiler libprotobuf-dev
  mkdir build && cd build
  cmake ..
  make -j 4

And to run a OEFNode:

::

  ./apps/node/Node


For full details, please follow the
`installation instructions for the OEFCore <https://github.com/uvue-git/OEFCore/blob/master/INSTALL.txt>`_.


Optional: set up the logger
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It might be useful to see logging messages to better understand what happens behind the scenes.

To do so, run the following instructions at the beginning of your scripts:

.. code-block:: python

    import logging
    from oef.logger import set_logger
    set_logger("oef.agents", logging.DEBUG)


First example: Echo agent
---------------------------

In this section we will develop an `echo agent`. That is, whenever it receives a message from another agent, it replies
with the same message.

First, we define the service agent that implements the echo service.
Then, we implement other client agents to interact with the echo service.

The code for the examples can be found
`here <https://github.com/uvue-git/OEFCorePython/tree/master/examples/echo>`_.

Echo Agent service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's start to implement the echo service agent.
To do so, we define a new class, ``EchoServiceAgent``, which extends
the ``OEFAgent`` class and redefines the behaviour of the ``on_message`` method.

The ``on_message`` method of an agent is called whenever
the agent is one of the intended recipients of the message.
In this case, we just send the message back
to the sender through the OEF.

In later examples we will see a more complex protocol and
how to implement the associated callbacks.

.. code-block:: python

    from oef.agents import OEFAgent

    class EchoServiceAgent(OEFAgent):

        def on_message(self, origin: str, dialogue_id: int, content: bytes):
            """ this method is called whenever a new message is sent to this agent.
            We send the received message back to the origin"""
            print("Received message: origin={}, dialogue_id={}, content={}".format(origin, dialogue_id, content))
            print("Sending {} back to {}".format(content, origin))
            self.send_message(dialogue_id, origin, content)

Connect to the OEF
``````````````````

In order to connect a (service) agent to the OEF, we need to specify:

* A unique identifier for the agent;
* The IP address and port of the OEF Node on which we want to register;

We will use ``echo_server`` as the identifier.
Choose the IP address and port pair provided by the OEFNode instance.
In this example, the IP address and port pair will be
``127.0.0.1`` and ``3333``, respectively.

.. code-block:: python

    # create agent and connect it to OEF
    server_agent = EchoServiceAgent("echo_server", oef_addr="127.0.0.1", oef_port=3333)
    server_agent.connect()

Define a Data Model and a Description
``````````````````````````````````````

In order to make our agent discoverable to other agents, we need to define a `description` (instance of a schema),
which refers to a `data model` (abstract definition of the schema).
In this way, other agents can find our service by making `queries` (defined over the same data model) to the OEF.

.. code-block:: python

    from oef.schema import DataModel, Description
    echo_model = DataModel("echo", [], "echo data service.")
    echo_description = Description({}, echo_model)


Our data model ``echo_model`` is very straightforward.
It has an empty list of `attribute schema`, just to make the example simpler.

The ``echo_description`` is the instantiation of our abstract
data model ``echo`` and defined accordingly.

Register the service
````````````````````

Now that we have a description of our service, let's register our service agent to the OEF:

.. code-block:: python

    server_agent.register_service(echo_description)


This instruction will notify the OEF Node that there is a new service available.

When another agent makes a query on the ``echo_model``, if the ``echo_description``
satisfies the constraint of that query,
then our agent will be one of the results of that query.


Run the agent
`````````````
To run the agent waiting for events:

::

  server_agent.run()


The ``run()`` method is blocking, so you have to switch to another terminal/console to launch the client.

For some particular use cases,
you may want to use ``async_run()``, which is the associated ``async`` method.


Echo Agent client
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `EchoClientAgent` implements our `echo client`, which is
the consumer of the service we implemented in the previous section.

.. code-block:: python

      from typing import List

      from oef.agents import OEFAgent

      class EchoClientAgent(OEFAgent):

          def on_message(self, origin: str, dialogue_id: int, content: bytes):
              print("Received message: origin={}, dialogue_id={}, content={}".format(origin, dialogue_id, content))

          def on_search_result(self, search_id: int, agents: List[str]):
              if len(agents) > 0:
                  print("Agents found: ", agents)
                  msg = b"hello"
                  for agent in agents:
                      print("Sending {} to {}".format(msg, agent))
                      self.send_message(0, agent, msg)
              else:
                  print("No agent found.")


The ``on_message`` method has the same semantics as the one implemented
in the ``EchoServiceAgent`` class. In this case,
we don't implement any complex behavior (we just print the received message).

The ``on_search_result`` callback is called whenever the agent receives
a search result of a search query with
``search_agents()`` or ``search_services()`` methods.

In our case, the agent just sends a ``"hello"`` message (in bytes) to every discovered service,
by using the ``send_message()`` method.

Connect to the OEF
``````````````````

Analogously to the previous section, we connect our client to the OEF.

.. code-block:: python

    client_agent = EchoClientAgent("echo_client", oef_addr="127.0.0.1", oef_port=3333)
    client_agent.connect()


Make a query
````````````

Now we need to search for agents who provide the ``echo`` service.

To do so, we create a ``Query`` referring to the ``echo`` data model. The first parameter is a list
of *constraints* over the attributes of the data model. However, since our data model is trivial,
our query just returns all the agents that are registered with the `echo` data model.

.. code-block:: python

    # create a query for the echo data model
    from oef.schema import DataModel
    from oef.query import Query
    echo_model = DataModel("echo", [], "Echo data service.")
    echo_query = Query([], echo_model)


Search for services
```````````````````

Once we have a query,
we can ask the OEF to return
all service agents that satisfy the given constraints.

.. code-block:: python

    client_agent.search_services(echo_query)

Wait for search results
```````````````````````

The client agent needs to wait for search results from the OEF Node:

.. code-block:: python

    # wait for events
    client_agent.run()


Once the OEF Node computes the results, the ``on_search_result`` callback is called.


Message Exchange
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


If you run the agents in different consoles, you can check the log messages that they produced.

The output from the client agent should be:

::

    Make search to the OEF
    Agents found:  ['echo_server']
    Sending b'hello' to echo_server
    Received message: origin=echo_server, dialogue_id=0, content=b'hello'

Whereas, the one from the server agent is:

::

    Received message: origin=echo_client, dialogue_id=0, content=b'hello'
    Sending b'hello' back to echo_client


The order of the exchanged message is the following:

1. The service agent ``echo_server`` registers itself to the the OEF Node and waits for messages.
2. The ``echo_client`` queries to the OEF Node
3. The OEF Node sends back the list of agents who satisfy
   the query constraints. In this trivial example,
   the only agent returned is the ``echo_server``.
4. The client sends a ``"hello"`` message to the OEF Node,
   which targets the ``echo_server``
5. The OEF Node dispatches the message from ``echo_client`` to ``echo_server``
6. The ``echo_server`` receives the message and sends a new message (with the same content)
   to the OEF Node, which targets the ``echo_client``
7. The OEF Node dispatch the message from ``echo_server`` to ``echo_client``
8. The ``echo_client`` receives the echo message.

Follows the sequence diagram with the message exchange.

.. mermaid:: ../diagrams/echo_sequence_diagram.mmd
    :alt: Sequence diagram for the Echo example.
    :align: center
    :caption: The exchange of messages in the Echo example.



Second example: Weather Station
-------------------------------

In this second example, consider the following scenario:

* A `weather station` provides measurements of
  some physical quantity (e.g. wind speed, temperature, air pressure)
* A `weather client` is interested in these measurements.

The owner of the weather station wants to sell the data it measure.
In the following sections, we describe a
protocol that allows the agents to:

* request resources (physical assets, services, information etc.)
* make price proposals on the negotiated resources
* accept/decline proposals.


You can check the code `here <https://github.com/uvue-git/OEFCorePython/tree/master/examples/weather>`_.


Weather Station Agent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Define a DataModel
``````````````````

For this example we need a specific data model that can effectively describe the features of services.


Let's start with an attribute to represent whether a weather station provides a measure for physical quantities, e.g.
wind speed:

.. code-block:: python

    from oef.schema import AttributeSchema

    WIND_SPEED_ATTR = AttributeSchema(
        "wind_speed",
        bool,
        is_attribute_required=True,
        attribute_description="Provides wind speed measurements."
    )


The ``AttributeSchema`` class constructor requires:

- The name of the attribute;
- The type of the attribute: it can be one of ``int``, ``float``, ``bool`` and ``str``;
- A flag to determine whether the instances of the data model (that is ``Description``) need to specify a value;
- A description of the meaning of the attribute.

In this case, our ``wind_speed`` attribute is of type ``bool``. If the description of a weather station has the value
``wind_speed`` set to ``True``, then it means that it can provide measurements for the wind speed.

We can define other type of measurements as well:

.. code-block:: python

    TEMPERATURE_ATTR = AttributeSchema(
        "temperature",
        bool,
        is_attribute_required=True,
        attribute_description="Provides temperature measurements."
    )

    AIR_PRESSURE_ATTR = AttributeSchema(
        "air_pressure",
        bool,
        is_attribute_required=True,
        attribute_description="Provides air pressure measurements."
    )

    HUMIDITY_ATTR = AttributeSchema(
        "humidity",
        bool,
        is_attribute_required=True,
        attribute_description="Provides humidity measurements."
    )

    PRICE_ATTR = AttributeSchema(
        "price",
        int,
        is_attribute_required=True,
        attribute_description="The price for a measurement."
    )


We will use the ``price`` attribute, an integer, to represents the price for any measurements.

Now we can define our data model:

.. code-block:: python

    from oef.schema import DataModel

    WEATHER_DATA_MODEL = DataModel(
        "weather_data",
        [WIND_SPEED_ATTR,
        TEMPERATURE_ATTR,
        AIR_PRESSURE_ATTR,
        HUMIDITY_ATTR,
        PRICE_ATTR],
        "All possible weather data."
    )


To define our data model ``WEATHER_DATA_MODEL`` we need a name and a list of attributes. We use the
same we defined previously, that is ``WIND_SPEED_ATTR``, ``AIR_PRESSURE_ATTR``, ``HUMIDITY_ATTR`` and ``PRICE_ATTR``.


Define a Description
````````````````````

Once we have the data model, we can provide an `instance` of that model. To do so, we can use the ``Description`` class:

.. code-block:: python

    weather_service_description = Description(
        {
            "wind_speed": True,
            "temperature": True,
            "air_pressure": True,
            "humidity": True,
            "price": 50
        },
        WEATHER_DATA_MODEL
    )

The first argument is a dictionary where:

- the keys are the names of the attributes;
- the values are the instantiation of the attribute schema specification.

The second argument is the data model the description is referring to.

We will use this description to register our service to the OEF. In this way, other agents can make queries defined over
the data model ``WEATHER_DATA_MODEL`` and discover the service.

Define the WeatherStation agent
```````````````````````````````

This is the code for our weather station:

.. code-block:: python

    class WeatherStation(OEFAgent):


    def on_cfp(self,
               origin: str,
               dialogue_id: int,
               msg_id: int,
               target: int,
               query: CFP_TYPES):
        print("Received cfp from {0} cif {1} msgId {2} target {3} query [{4}]"
              .format(origin, dialogue_id, msg_id, target, query))

        # prepare a propose
        proposal = self.weather_service_description
        self.send_propose(dialogue_id, origin, [proposal], msg_id + 1, target + 1)


And here is the code to run the agent:

.. code-block:: python


    agent = WeatherStation("weather_station", oef_addr="127.0.0.1", oef_port=3333)
    agent.connect()
    agent.register_service(agent.service_description)
    agent.run()


Weather Client Agent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the code for the client of the weather service:

.. code-block:: python

    class WeatherClient(OEFAgent):
    
        def on_search_result(self, search_id: int, agents: List[str]):
            print("Agent found: {0}".format(agents))
            for agent in agents:
                print("Sending to agent {0}".format(agent))
                query = Query([Constraint(TEMPERATURE_ATTR, Eq(True)),
                               Constraint(AIR_PRESSURE_ATTR, Eq(True)),
                               Constraint(HUMIDITY_ATTR, Eq(True))],
                              WEATHER_DATA_MODEL)
                self.send_cfp(0, agent, query)
    
        def on_propose(self, origin: str, dialogue_id: int, msg_id: int, target: int, proposals: PROPOSE_TYPES):
            print("Received propose from {0} cif {1} msgId {2} target {3} proposals {4}"
                  .format(origin, dialogue_id, msg_id, target, proposals))
            print("Price {0}".format(proposals[0]._values["price"]))
            self.send_accept(dialogue_id, origin, msg_id + 1, msg_id)



And here's the code to run it:

.. code-block:: python

    agent = WeatherClient("weather_client", oef_addr="127.0.0.1", oef_port=3333)
    agent.connect()

    query = Query([Constraint(TEMPERATURE_ATTR, Eq(True)),
                   Constraint(AIR_PRESSURE_ATTR, Eq(True)),
                   Constraint(HUMIDITY_ATTR, Eq(True))],
                   WEATHER_DATA_MODEL)

    agent.search_services(query)
    agent.run()


Message Exchange
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


The output from the client agent should be:

::

    Agent found: ['weather_station']
    Sending to agent weather_station
    Received propose from weather_station cif 0 msgId 2 target 1 proposals [<oef.schema.Description object at 0x7f94ad8ca278>]
    Price 50


Whereas, the one from the server agent is:

::

    Received cfp from weather_client cif 0 msgId 1 target 0 query [<oef.query.Query object at 0x7fe00f674358>]
    Received accept from weather_client cif 0 msgId 3 target 2


The order of the exchanged message is the following:

TODO
